greetings everyone thanks for
downloading this latest episode of the
China history podcast we have another
topic today that I'd like to introduce
that everyone should be at least
acquainted with I've mentioned them a
few times in previous podcasts I thought
before we swing back in the other
direction and hang out for a while in
modern times
perhaps I should do one more topic from
China's ancient days and even pre
ancient days today we go back much
farther than the Zhuo Dynasty Kings
today we go deep into China's legendary
past and look at the Sun Huangdi the
three sovereigns and the five Emperor's
these eight figures play a big role in
ancient Chinese mythology especially the
Yellow Emperor so I thought before we
head back to the 20th century and look
at some post-liberation Chinese history
let's go all the way to the beginning of
the beginning to the three August ones
or sovereigns are three Lords of China's
pre historical period in the five
emperors of the ancient historical
period the good news is that these eight
sort of come one right after the other
so chronologically they're easy to keep
straight the bad news is there are
multiple variations about who comprises
the three and who makes up the five you
don't really know whom to go with so
we'll sort of look at most of them
because it's all not too terribly
confusing and although approximate dates
are associated with various persons the
dates aren't that terribly important
this period covers the six or seven
hundred years before the shot dynasty of
which we only know from legends and from
what Samad Chen wrote in these show Qi
in all the cultures around the world
they all have their own myths and oral
histories about these times these were
the centuries where mankind on earth
were just getting ready to take off
these days between say 3000 BC and 2000
BC humankind around the world who
wherever they were were in varying
degrees learning the most basic
necessities of life and had obtained the
knowledge and skills for survive
in all manners of natural phenomena were
ascribed to various gods and demigods
now who am I to say these people who the
Chinese call their ancestors were made
up or they actually roamed this earth
6,000 years ago who even knows what
happened 600 years ago let alone 6,000
if the Chinese consider the San Huang
woul D to be their most ancient of
ancestors that we should find out who
they are I guess you know since we're
going this far back there aren't too
many layers before you get to Pongal so
although he is not a member of this team
the San Huang will D let's just briefly
introduce him to the best of my
knowledge in all of anything that has to
do with China
there is nothing older than Pongal
although this is more mythology than
history it all starts with Pangu Pangu
was born in an egg that contained the
universe the egg and the egg shape is
found in many cosmologies China uses it
too after eighteen thousand years the
egg hatched into two pieces and then
over another hundred and eighty
centuries
Pangu separated the two halves of the
egg into the heavens and the earth below
eventually everything was in balance
between the young of heaven with the
Eden of Earth Pangu dies afterwards and
his physical remains were scattered
about the earth and this is the Chinese
version of what the Bible said happen on
days number five and six all life on
Earth came into being Pangu is by no
means a God with a small or a large G
let's just say in the Chinese
mythological creation it all happened
with some great beginning and Pangu sort
of went along for the ride and helped to
facilitate the formation of the heavens
and the earth and then all life on Earth
this is just one version of the myth of
Pongal
the creation of the Chinese land and of
the people I don't want to get bogged
down in too many details about all the
various versions suffice to say for our
purposes today
first there was Pongal and then there
was new Wow who
also gets credit for creating the human
race nu WA is associated with a lot of
myths in China and plays multiple roles
and has multiple powers she's often
associated with the god-king foo she in
some versions of the myth nu WA is the
daughter of the Jade Emperor you
remember him I hope from our Taoism part
three podcast there's more agreement on
who the five Emperor's were than with
the three sovereigns in some versions
and certainly somach shins version there
were three august ones called tin wong
dee Kwang and tae Kwang in English we'd
say the heavenly sovereign the earthly
sovereign and guests the Thai sovereign
somach e'en aside most sources I ran
across consider Fuu she shunned and the
Yellow Emperor Huangdi to be the three
so let's look at them Pangu aside the
most ancient of the Ancients is Fuu she
his sister and/or wife was nu WA Fushigi
new WA are slotted around 2800 BC it was
they who with the permission of the Jade
Emperor Pro created and created the
human race after floods had wiped out
everything and everyone you can see in
these lands along the Yellow River so
many flood related legends the Yellow
River so dominated the lives of those
who were affected by it over the
centuries new uwah
also used her magical powers to fashion
humans out of clay so this is how they
were able to mass-produce the human race
rather than you know doing it the long
way nu WA is very important nu WA is a
very important person in Chinese
mythology for all kinds of matters
relating to a man and a woman
particularly in any in all matters of
marriage Fuu she brought humanity to
humankind and taught man how to make
Nets
how to fish and along with Tang Jia
later on is credited with teaching man
how to write he also gets general credit
for teaching mankind
to survive and do basic things he is
said to a first taught mankind about
silkworms in there
bountiful yield his time again was
around the 28 hundreds BC or thereabouts
he's also credited with creating the
eight trigrams the BA kua and some say
he wrote the eaching and not King Jowan
who we discussed last time the father of
Joko the old tradition that a man and a
woman of the same surname cannot marry
also is traced back to this first of the
San Wong Sun means three one king or
sovereign next up is shun Nome shun
gnomes time would be about the 2700 BC
this is before the Great Flood and about
a hundred years or so before the Great
Pyramid was built this was when
Stonehenge was built cuneiform writing
was just now appearing for the first
time in Mesopotamia but there was
nothing like that unearthed in China yet
to corroborate the existence of Shandong
nor any of the San Huang rule d
he is also referred to as Yin deep
although some say Yandy was totally
separate from Shandong Yin means flame
or fire so she unknown is also referred
to as the fire Emperor or flame Emperor
he's considered by most to be the second
of the san huang or three sovereigns as
his name suggests which can mean divine
farmer he is the one most credited with
teaching agriculture to the Chinese
people no Meah means agriculture no mean
are the farmers so shun Nome shun means
divine and Nome means pertaining to
agriculture because of the work written
long after he was said to have lived the
unknown bunsall Jing or shun dongs herb
root classic he is also credited with
being the father of Chinese medicine or
at least herbal medicine this
automatically made shun dong the patron
saint of all herbalists and pharmacists
acupuncture is also something that some
legends say unknown gave to the Chinese
people in 2737 BC
it said this god of the five grains or
god of agriculture and stalwart of
chinese culture brought tea to mankind
and taught the chinese all the medicinal
and health benefits of tea drinking
following Shandong was of course the
last of the San Huang and this was the
famous Yellow Emperor of the three
mythical San Huang
it's the Yellow Emperor more than Fuji
or Shandong who is considered the father
of the hua Shao or the Chinese people
and in fact the entirety of Chinese
civilization in general the hua Shao
people were made up of all these
individual tribes that stretched all
along the winding Yellow River and
hernn Xiang XI and Shandong these
quassia were all United and became the
Han people who today make up over 90% of
all people living in China and it's the
Yellow Emperor who brought all the
various tribes and clans of the Yellow
River Valley under his control and unify
all of these people into a single
culture the Yellow Emperor is the only
one of the three who has a full name
that is gongs one genuine the Yellow
Emperor is also credited with advancing
silk farming techniques and how to make
clothes from silk well it gets credit
for this but one story is that he had a
wife and three concubines it was the
wife of the Yellow Emperor who taught
about silk farming and weaving skills
and one concubine invented chopsticks
and another the comb I couldn't find
what the third one did except to say
that she was not that great looking but
the Emperor favored her other things
credited to the Yellow Emperor the wheel
armor weapons ships a money system the
compass and writing that's the third one
already trying to glom some credit for
inventing Chinese characters the yellow
Emperor's period was somewhere around
the 2600 BC this would be just about the
time the old kingdom of Egypt was
starting to get cranked up unfortunately
in China at least these were the days
where nothing has been
found yet that can tell us anything to
support these myths he's called the
Yellow Emperor due to the yellow period
of this time you had the five elements
the whooshing of wood fire earth metal
water this along with the eating and
other things were all part of the Taoism
that became so a meshed with traditional
Chinese folk culture
he's a major patron saint of Taoism the
yellow Emperor's time was the earth
period and in the five elements yellow
was the color associated with earth all
the five elements were linked to
everything and they all had a specific
color associated with them so he was
called the Yellow Emperor the Yellow
Emperor came from around Chu fool a city
we mentioned last time in our Duke of
Joh episode Khufu was the capital of Joe
Kong's patrimonial state of Lu and also
later during the time of the Eastern Joe
was the birthplace of Confucius you just
can't say anything bad about the Yellow
Emperor much of what is credited to foo
XI and shun Nome is also credited to the
Yellow Emperor the times of the Yellow
Emperor were good times it was believed
in these days still several centuries
before the great floods that there was
peace and the Yellow Emperor through his
own means and his influence brought
great peace and prosperity to the
Chinese people and he's held up as a
paragon of virtue and wisdom and for
this and for all he did for China up to
that time he was immortalized and became
a God of Chinese mythology and to this
day references can be found in all kinds
of popular Chinese culture where the
Chinese call themselves the sons and
grandsons of the Yellow Emperor another
landmark accomplishment attributed to
the Yellow Emperor was the Wandy Beijing
this is the yellow Emperor's inner
cannon or classic this is the granddaddy
of them all or the original oldest
Chinese source from which all knowledge
about Chinese medicine
Kame it's divided up into the SU one and
the Ling Shu and it's here were the most
basic questions of the day regarding
human health and acupuncture were
discussed you can visit the tomb of the
Yellow Emperor samaa Chen says he's
buried there and King Wu brother of the
venerable Duke of Joe says he's buried
there too it's two and a half hours
north of Xian up the Jie 210 Highway let
me say it's on my list of places to go
visit when I have time now the Yellow
Emperor is also taken by some to be one
of the five Emperor's rather than one of
the three sovereigns the important thing
to know as you can tell already there's
no single clean-cut authoritative Edith
Hamilton tales of Greek mythology order
about all this it's all very interesting
but there are multiple versions of
almost everything I've said and who
knows what to believe but you can see
with these three mythical sovereigns all
the basics of a settled civilization
including all the necessary tools
required for a people to grow food are
given by these powerful and wise people
who were part God and part King moving
right along
the first of the five Emperor's was Shah
huh though as I said there are those who
had other ideas he was said to be the
son of the Yellow Emperor and reigned in
the 2500 BC at his capital and Chu fool
his tomb is also there and it's an
additional sight to see of that ancient
and important city in China very slim
pickins on this Emperor so we're gonna
move straight into his nephew Duan Xu
who reigned sort of 2500 to 2400 BC
everyone is mostly an agreement that
Duan Shu was the second of the wool dr5
emperors he was a grandson of the Yellow
Emperor again like his predecessor Duan
Shu doesn't have much that's written
about him though he is said to have
particularly made contributions to
astronomy in the calendar he was
followed by cool who was the
great-grandson of the Yellow Emperor he
was 24 hundreds 2300 BC now we're
getting into the time of
and the Biblical Flood which as we know
matches the times of the great floods in
China and you the great so sha ho Duan
Shu and ku not a whole lot to say but
the final two of the mythical woul D or
five Emperor's were Yao and shun
Yao was the son of cool when we speak of
the San Huang D the three sovereigns and
five Emperor's I sort of draw the line
right here
beginning with y'all where although
there isn't any hard historical evidence
Yao is a definite maybe as far as having
ever lived
Yao and shun although mythical well
let's just say they used to say the same
thing about Troy until Heinrich
Schliemann came along what is important
about Emperor Yao is that first he stood
for the ultimate upright morally perfect
model benevolent Emperor from which
forevermore Chinese would point to
throughout history for all the Emperor's
to follow from Qing Chuang tepui yah was
always held up as the model Emperor and
of course Confucius always held Yao in
the highest esteem the Chinese chess
game of wait chief was invented by Yahoo
it said he was the first to hand the
crown to the most worthy rather than
just passing on to a possibly no-good
son in y'all's case he had some
disappointing sons one named Anju or in
another Shang Jun when it came time to
abdicate he did it in favor of his
son-in-law Xuan instead shun was married
to both of Yas daughters along a new yin
and for this Yao was repeatedly the
target of endless assassination attempts
by his own father and stepbrother but
it's his daughters who time and again
save y'all's life or so the legend goes
and if you vaguely recall from recent
podcasts on the mid-autumn festival
it was y'all who called on ho ye to deal
with the ten burning hot Suns and ho ye
shot nine of them down killing them and
earning the eternal wrath of the
god of the Eastern Sun detune however
Yao didn't look on this as such a bad
thing so we see the origins of
mid-autumn festival to the time of Yao
there were what was known as the three
sage kings these were Yao Shuang and you
you being the founder of the Chou
dynasty and the one who was called the
great for his taming of the floods these
came in quick succession one after the
other so it's with Yao and shun and of
course you the great that the myths
start to emulsify into a kind of a
recorded history so although this is a
mythical time period in Chinese history
let's just say it's less mythical than
the times of Fujita ku Xuan as I said
was considered another great sage King
his accomplishments were in setting up
the basic organization of society how
land was divided up what rituals
sacrifices were necessary the stories of
shuang's filial devotion his humility
and Industry make up a good part of his
legend so that's the sanhuang woul d the
three sovereigns Russia shun known and
the Yellow Emperor and the five
Emperor's shall how Duan Shu ku y'all
and should also part of the whole San
Huang Wu DeMuth are Pangu and nu WA
these old mythological figures from
China's prehistory days are considered
the earliest kings who laid all the
foundations from which sprung the Shah
Chung and later the Jo as I have said
several times there were no somach ends
during their time who dutifully recorded
all their exploits and achievements all
that we know of these days prior to the
18th century BC are simply legends and
second and third-hand accounts of events
that can hardly be counted on us having
happened but all the same at least the
main ones the Yellow Emperor
Yao and shun these are still very
critical and important figures from
Chinese culture and you could see them
wherever Chinese calendars might hang in
paintings scrolls and ever
imaginable form of carved figurine or
statue they may never have lived but
that doesn't mean they're not important
so that's it on these guys
this is Lhasa Montgomery coming to you
as I've done a couple times before from
the lovely Upper House in Hong Kong yes
true to my word I'm already in the
middle of my first trip for this month
and I'm enjoying a nice respite in my
home here for nine years eating well and
enjoying the nice Hong Kong October
weather next time I'm planning to go
back to modern days or at least no later
than the Ching dynasty but maybe we'll
look at some Jia Fung he hold a jung-hwa
leisure or chinese history that took
place after liberation in 1949 I'm back
home in Claremont this Saturday and if
all goes well we'll all be together next
week for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast take care everyone